# ReaX
#### Video Demo: 
## Description: 
### ReaX is a dynamic game where the player's goal is to achieve the highest score by tapping green cells to earn points (plus 50 points) while avoiding red and black cells that cause point loss (minus 200 points for red and minus 400 points for black) or reduce lives (1 life out of 3). The game is played on a 3×3 grid, with cells changing colors randomly. At the end, scores are saved in the Scores View, allowing players to track past results and compare performance. The app is designed to train reactivity and improve focus—useful before a sports tournament, exam, or any event requiring sharp concentration.
### This app is composed of 6 Views :
#### - CellView: View of a single cell. Each cell has 3 colors that can be displayed (red, green, black).
#### - HomeView: View with the title and two buttons : 1 that displays the ScoresView and 1 that displays the PlayView
#### - ScoresView: View Where the user can see all his previous scores and can decides whether or not to delete some scores. It is presented using a list and a navigationStack (that is like a ScrollView) And Each Scores is presented in a green rectangle (because I like the color green) And also the score is displayed in "mint" because I think it's a cool color. In The tool Bar there is a minus button that deletes all the previous scores and empties the Scores container (where the daata from each game is stored).
#### - PlayView: View where the user plays, it is composed of 3 main parts: the top where the user can see information about the gmae he is currently playing as well as some data rom previous games, the middle, where we can see the GridView and the bottom where the user can start and stop ad return back to the HomeView to see his scores. The top part is formed using the best score, the current user score, the number of life left, the time (how much time the user has been playing). Under on the middle part, there is the GridView (3X3 grid of cells that dynamically changes depending of the state of the game, start/stop). On the button part there is the buttons to start/stop or go back to the HomeView (the HomeView button first leads to the gameOverView where data from the game is displayed).
#### - GridView: View of a 3X3 grid of cells that changes color (dynamically) depending on the gameState (start/stop).
#### - GameOverView: View where when you lose or win, your score will be displayed here along side two buttons a red button and a blue button (the red button is to play again and the blue button is to go the the HomeView) When the user beats his best score (one of his previous scores, by points) a little crown icon is displayed on top of the score.
### How Does It Work: 
#### When the user clicks on the play button in the HomeView, it changes the value of a boolean variable and that triggers an if statement that changes the View to PlayView. When the PlayView loads, it  automatically starts the game (after a count down of 3 seconds). When the countDown (name of the variable) finishes it changes the state of two "global" which starts the game by calling functions to start the grid and the timer. 
#### When the user clicks on a cell when the user is considered playing, the program checks the color of the cell add or remove points from the current score. The user can tap on the pause button to pause then game (this button calls 2 functions, 1 that pauses the timer and 1 that pauses the grid (each cells from changing state)).
#### Each Score object is composed of the time, the score and the date where the score was realized.
#### The game finishes either when the user played for 1 hour (where he wins) or he lost all his 3 lives (which in that case, is a gameOver). In both case, it displays the GameOverView that displays the score that the user get on that game as weel as 2 button, 1 to play again starting from scratch and 1 to head back to the HomeView.
#### When the game finishes (either by wining losing or quitting) the score of the gmae will automatically be stored in the app "container" and the data from the container is displayed in the scoresView.
#### From the HomeView the user can also go to the ScoresView, Where the user can see all his previous scores and deletes them if he wants to.
### Goal of the app:
#### ReaX is designed for anyone who wants to improve their focus, and reaction speed. While the main purpose of the app is to train your reaction speed and focus, it can also and simply just be an engaging and challenging game. Players can use this app as a tool to improve themself or also as a simple entertainment, where they can compete against each other to get the best score.

